Alif Lam Meem, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum,
Nazala alayka Al-Kitab Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrat Wa Al-Injeel,
Min Qabnu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Furqan,
Inna Allatheena Kafuroo Bi Ayat Allahi Lahum Azaabuhu Shadeed,
Wa Allahu Azizun Zuntiqan,
Inna Allaha La Yakhda Alayhi Shajee Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fi Al-Sama
Assalamu Alaykum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuh
Bismillahir Rahmanir Raheem, Alhamdulillahi Wahdahu Wa Sallallahu wa Sallam,
Wa Baraka Ala Malla Nabiyya Ba'dahu Wa Ala Aalihi Wa Ashaabihi Ajma'een
We praise Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, we send blessings and salutations upon Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
And all his household, his companions, may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them and grant them all goodness
and may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless every single one of us.
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam,
we thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala for giving us such a blessed month whereby we come every single night
for the entire month and we listen to the words of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
And above that we take home a message that we can ponder over and we can study,
we can implement in our own lives and convey it to others.
So thank Allah for giving us season after season, for rejuvenating and refreshing our spirituality
and for granting us closeness to him.
May he still grant us even more closeness to him as the days pass in such a way that the day we leave this world,
we will be the closest we ever were to our own maker.
May he forgive us on that day and may he grant us ease.
Beloved brothers and sisters,
we were looking at how the kuffar of Quraysh, the disbelievers in Quraysh had boycotted the Muslims
and I had made mention of several points.
They said we will not marry into them nor will we allow them to marry into us.
We will not deal with them nor will we allow them to deal with us.
We will not provide them any sustenance, anything at all that is of goodness for them.
We are not going to sign a treaty with them nor will we allow them to initiate that.
And we are not going to mix with them nor will we allow them to mix with us.
We will not even sit with them and we will not even talk to them
and we won't even allow them to enter our houses.
These were some of the points that were written down.
And the scribe for your information, the man who was writing it down,
his name was Mansoor ibn Ikrimah.
According to some of the narrations, later on he actually became paralysed on his hand.
He couldn't write after that.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us.
Remember one thing, when a person harms the friends of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
wallahi there is very little hope for them
because it is Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala who will retaliate instead of that particular person.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us and grant us goodness.
So they had written this and they had managed to get the Muslims into a place known as Shi'ab Abi Talib
on the outskirts of Makkah al-Mukarramah.
And for three years the Muslims suffered.
As we made mention of last night, they began to eat the leaves of the trees
and they were sucking on the roots of some of the shrubs
in order to extract the water from there.
The liquid from it.
And they were roasting the skins, meaning the hide of the animals that they had already cut
and trying to nibble on it in order to get whatever goodness was there.
They became frail, they became sick, they became very very weak and so on.
It did not deter them, not at all, not at all.
With us, imagine for three years if we had to be boycotted completely, no food, no drink.
I think three days later we probably would give in,
may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala safeguard us.
The reason I make mention of this is because we are spoilt.
And still we don't understand the gift of Allah.
We have three meals a day and a lot of the times we have much more than we can actually eat.
Take a look at the month of Ramadan.
Today on our tables in the evening when we were opening the fast,
didn't we have much more than we could consume?
Allahu Akbar.
That's a gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make us conscious of His gifts.
What had happened then, because it was becoming very difficult,
the Prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam told his companions
they may go to Habasha or to Abyssinia.
Once again we made mention of this in a little bit of detail yesterday
and we said that there were 83 men and 18 women who left for Abyssinia at the time
and Ja'far ibn Abi Talib was the Ameer of them
and Quraysh did not stop there.
They sent Amr ibn al-Aas with a team of people
to go to Najashi, the Negus of Abyssinia.
And as we heard yesterday he went and he told the Negus
that there are a group of people here from the people of Mecca,
from our people who have reneged from the religion of our forefathers
and they are wanted back in Mecca and they are criminals and so on.
They have come to your land to seek asylum, send them back.
And these people had come with gifts,
gifts to give the king, you know, to give this leader of Abyssinia.
And after some time this leader Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
had already told the Muslims he would be just.
He's a Christian man, he will listen to you, he will not oppress you.
So he had asked Ja'far ibn Abi Talib what he had to say
and after making it very clear as to why they were there
and as to the ignorance they were in before
and how they were blessed by Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
being sent to them with the highest level of character and conduct
and the highest level of worship.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala was to be worshiped alone.
No sticks, no stones, no idols, no people,
nothing besides Allah, besides the Maker,
besides the one that we will return to.
So in Najashi then he allowed them to stay
and he told the people of Mecca to leave.
The Quraysh, Amr ibn al-Aas was told to leave.
And guess what?
He was given back all the gifts to say take all this away and carry on.
Because I didn't do what you wanted me to do here,
it's like you came to me with a bribe, take it back, go away.
Allahu Akbar, today when people take bribes,
Allah save us, even if they don't do your work for you,
the bribe is eaten, Allahu Akbar, it's gone.
May Allah save us.
Look at the honesty of the man
because they did not get what they wanted,
he gave everything back.
He says take this and carry on.
That was a just ruler, the ruler of Abyssinia, Allahu Akbar.
So they slept the night and they thought of a plan.
We mentioned this yesterday, I'm repeating it today.
They came back and said, do you know what?
Oh, Negus of Abyssinia,
these people blaspheme Jesus Christ.
Do you know what?
They say something very bad about Jesus,
may peace be upon him.
So he called Ja'far ibn Abi Talib and the Muslims
and said, what do you people say about Jesus?
So Ja'far ibn Abi Talib said,
He is the worshipper of Allah, the slave of Allah,
the messenger of Allah, subhanahu wa ta'ala.
The rooh, his soul was blown into the Virgin Mary,
born without a father, miraculously.
That's what we believe and so on.
And he mentioned whatever he was taught about Isa,
the Prophet Jesus, may peace be upon him.
And subhanallah, what did Najashi do?
When he heard that, he said immediately,
that he was a Christian,
that is exactly what we know about the Prophet Jesus,
may peace be upon him.
It's exactly what we know.
Imagine, this was the authentic teachings of Christianity
coming from Africa.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all.
So he asked Ja'far ibn Abi Talib
to read some of the Quran.
And as we heard yesterday,
he read the verses, opening verses of the Surah,
named after Mary, the Virgin Mary,
may peace be upon her,
the mother of Jesus Christ, may peace be upon him.
The story starts of Zakariya a.s.
and how he made the dua'a in old age,
that, oh Allah, I'm not going to lose hope in your mercy,
grant me male offspring.
And how then he had children
and then Mary had a child as well and so on.
And the entire story of Isa a.s. is mentioned,
but the opening verses were enough
to make the tears of Najashi roll down his eyes.
Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam,
revelation revealed to him
that An-Najashi and his men were crying
when they heard the Quran.
And the Quran says that they believed
in Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Although the Najashi, having accepted Islam,
did not inform his subjects of it
and his people of it.
He kept it within.
Later on, in the year 9 Hijri,
according to some of the narrations
and some say the 8th of Hijra,
Abu Hurairah radiallahu anhu reports in a hadith
which is in Sahih al-Bukhari
that the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam
said one day that I have been informed
that Najashi, your brother, Ashamah,
that was his name was Ashamah
and Najashi is just the title.
It's like a king.
So Ashamah and Najashi of Abyssinia
has passed away your brother.
Let us get up and read Salatul Janazah for him.
And so they got up in abstentia
and they read Salatul Janazah for An-Najashi
and that was evidence enough
to prove that he was a Muslim.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
and may he take us away in a condition of Iman.
So these people, Amr ibn al-Aas went away.
For your information, just something very interesting.
Amr ibn al-Aas, he came back to Abyssinia
some time later in order to try his tricks.
Some time later, he came back
and he spoke to the Najashi once again
and Najashi told him a few words
and it is reported that that is when Islam
entered the heart of Amr ibn al-Aas.
Islam entered the heart of Amr ibn al-Aas
which means within his heart,
he already began to accept
because he heard someone from Africa
confirm that that is a Nabi.
In fact, exactly what happened was
he was told that the angel
that came to Jesus and Moses
is the same angel that has come
to the man you are talking about
which is Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
And this was witnessed by a man
who lived very very far away
who did not even see the Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
Now, some make mention of the fact
that later on he went to Medina Munawwara
and accepted in the hands of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
that was Amr ibn al-Aas.
But those who have made mention of the fact
that he accepted Islam with a Najashi,
there is something interesting.
If that was the case,
then it's the first time
that a Sahabi accepted Islam
at the hands of a Tabi'i.
Have we thought of that?
Because Najashi was a Tabi'i.
He did not see Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
So if the narration is valid,
then this would have been the case.
However, the more common narration is that
he came back and later on
he spoke to Khalid ibn al-Walid
and just before the victory of Makkah,
they had come in to Medina Munawwara
and accepted Islam with Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness.
So at that particular time,
whilst the Muslims were being surrounded
and they were boycotted and so on,
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
was suffering so much, so much suffering.
Why?
Because no one speaking, no one dealing,
nothing happening.
He decided, Allah has given me permission
to go to Abyssinia, let me go.
So on his way out, as he is progressing,
going to Abyssinia, he meets a man who knew him.
His name was Ibn al-Dughunnah.
This Ibn al-Dughunnah stops him.
Ya Aba Bakr, where are you going?
He says, I am now leaving my people.
They are troubling us.
They are not allowing us to follow
and fulfill what we believe.
So now I am going to Habashah.
Perhaps Allah will open our doors there and so on.
He says, no, a man like you should not be going.
You are an honorable man.
You fulfill the rights of everyone.
Your character and conduct is exemplary.
You help the widows and the orphans
and you assist those in need.
You do not lie and so on.
Come with me, I will take you back to Quraysh
and give them my guarantee
that they will not harm you
and they should not harm you from my guarantee.
So he went back with Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
and he spoke to the leaders of Quraysh
who agreed on one condition.
They said, this man must not worship Allah openly
and he must not recite the Qur'an openly
because we've got rid of all of them.
They are all somewhere in Shi'ab Abi Talib
and this man here is going to come
and he's going to read the Qur'an aloud.
Our daughters, our sons, our children,
everyone is interested.
They are already turning towards these words
and we don't want these words to be uttered again.
We've just managed to solve the problem.
For your information,
if you look at the list of names of Muslims,
all these top chiefs,
their children were involved.
They were already Muslim.
All the big boys, Allahu Akbar,
their children were already Muslim
and members of their family,
either brothers, sisters, somehow relatives,
very close relatives,
were all already within the fold of Islam.
So they knew that something drastic has to happen
to block it, otherwise we are dead.
What was the problem?
Why were they so worried?
They were worried because they feared loss of power.
They feared loss of wealth.
They thought some authority is going to come above us
and going to take us over
and then we will lose all our dignity.
They did not know Islam gives dignity.
It does not take it away.
Allahu Akbar.
So Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu was free
and later on, in the house,
he used to read Salah outside
in the little courtyard of his
and people started flocking again.
These people called Ibn Dughunnah after some time
and told him, look, this man is breaking the promise.
So Ibn Dughunnah came to him and told him,
look, I gave you my guarantee
and I gave the same guarantee
to the people of Quraysh about you
and now you are breaking the promise
by reading the Qur'an outside.
Everybody is coming to listen to it
and people are coming, they don't want that.
So either you stop it or I take back my guarantee.
Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiAllahu anhu,
what do you think he said?
He said, take back your guarantee.
Go back to him and tell them this,
I can't manage.
So he went back, he took the guarantee.
That is when they started harming Abu Bakr radiAllahu anhu
even physically.
The people of Quraysh began to usurp wealth
because they had got the Muslims
into Shi'ab Abi Talib.
So now their wealth was open.
They began to usurp things
and oppress in a huge way.
Until one day there was a group of people
who saw, in fact one man
and his name was Hisham ibn Amar.
He was from Quraysh, not a believer.
And he saw his relatives suffering
because Banu al-Muttalib and Banu Hashim
were in Shi'ab Abi Talib being surrounded,
boycotted, suffering, dying and so on.
And he says, this Hisham ibn Amar,
he says to himself, we can't allow this to happen.
Let me think of a plan.
These are our brothers and sisters,
our blood, our real family.
How can this happen?
He thought to himself,
Abu Jahl who is the one who came up
with the idea of boycott,
had we come up with the idea of boycott
about his family, he wouldn't have followed us.
So why must we follow him?
Look at this man, not a Muslim.
This is why Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
Innallaha layu ayyidu hathad dini bil rajulil fajir.
That at times Allah grants or gives support
and strength to the deen by a man who is sinful,
sometimes by a man who's not even a Muslim.
The example of Abu Talib is cited,
the example of this young man,
he went to one of his friends, Zuhair ibn Abi Umayyah,
and he says exactly what he thought,
that look, look at these people, they are dying.
We need to break this treaty.
I'm ready to break it, this little covenant.
I feel like going to the Kaaba and tearing it,
ripping it to pieces in front of everyone,
but I need one man to support me.
So this man says, I'm with you.
So now he went to a third man
and the third man was Al-Mut'im ibn Adi.
And he told Al-Mut'im ibn Adi the same thing,
I need a man's support to do this.
I want to tear it, rip it apart.
Aren't you feeling compassionate
against, meaning towards these people here?
Don't you feel in your heart a little bit of mercy?
He says, yes.
So he says, okay, that makes now three of us.
Allahu Akbar.
And he went to another one, a fourth one.
The fourth one was Abu al-Bakhtari ibn Hisham.
And he tells him the same thing.
Abu al-Bakhtari says, I'm with you.
He says, now that makes four of us, Allahu Akbar.
And he went to a fifth one.
Look at this man and his tactic of thinking.
If he were to announce it, it wouldn't have succeeded.
But one by one, he went to those whom he trusts
and he spoke to them on humanitarian grounds.
Subhanallah, humanitarian grounds.
He says, look, we need to break this.
This is barbaric.
How can you prevent people from eating?
How can you prevent people from food and drink
and they are your blood?
How?
So now they went to the final man, Zam'ah ibn al-Aswad
and the five of them agreed.
So Zuhair ibn Abi Umayyah says,
let's go to the Ka'bah
and we pretend like we are not connected
and I will stand up in front of Abu Jahl and the others
and I am going to announce that this is oppression
against Banu Hashim and Banu al-Muttalib
and I am going to get up and tear and rip this covenant
which is on the Ka'bah
and from today on, it's going to be broken.
And when I say that, let's see what happens.
You all come in one by one to support.
So this was happening on one front.
On the other front,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala revealed to Muhammad
salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
O Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
three years has gone by.
We want to let you know that the ants,
the termites have eaten the covenant.
Nothing is left of it.
Besides where?
The name of Allah was written.
So it's eaten up.
In the Ka'bah, it's in the Ka'bah
but it's eaten up the termite.
The mite has eaten it.
So he tells his uncle,
oh my uncle, this is what has happened.
The uncle says, are you sure?
He says, Allah has told me.
Allah has told me,
that's a guarantee, it's not wrong.
So Abu Talib is now in the vicinity of the Ka'bah
preparing to tell these people.
And in the meantime, this man gets up.
Now, these are two narrations,
we brought them together.
So this man, Zuhair ibn Abi Umayyah,
he gets up and he makes his announcement.
We want to break the covenant.
I'm going to do this and do that.
And Abu Jahl gets up and says,
you dare touch it.
So now Hisham ibn Amr gets up and says,
what are you talking about?
I agree with this man here.
It is wrong, it is oppressive and so on.
So Abu Jahl says, who you think you are?
And the third one gets up and says,
no, I also agree with these two.
What they are saying is right.
And then a few people get in
and the fourth one comes and the fifth one comes.
And then Abu Talib says, hang on.
This covenant has been eaten by ants.
And this was information given to my nephew
by Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Everyone is silent.
They are silent.
What is the silence?
The covenant is eaten.
So Quraish get together quickly
and they tell Abu Talib, okay,
what if the covenant is not eaten?
He says, if the covenant is not eaten,
I hand you my nephew.
I give him to you.
That's all they wanted.
They wanted him to execute him.
I hand him to him.
And if the covenant is eaten,
the boycott stops immediately.
They agreed and they struck that agreement properly.
And then they look into the Kaaba.
They see, low and behold,
it is completely eaten besides the name of Allah.
Subhanahu wa ta'ala.
And these young boys were successful.
And at the same time,
the revelation that had come to Muhammad
salallahu alayhi wa sallam as well
was completely accurate, subhanallah.
Still, the boycott, mashallah,
it had stopped immediately,
but they didn't believe.
And what is of irony is Abu Talib himself
also did not believe yet.
That's very ironic.
And this goes to show that sometimes
when Allah has not written guidance for someone,
it will never come.
It's our teaching.
We are taught by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wa sallam
to constantly say,
اللهم يا مقلب القلوب
ثبت قلوبنا على دينك
O Allah, O Allah,
who turns the hearts,
the one who owns the turning of the hearts,
turn our hearts upon the right path,
not away from it.
Because Allah owns the hearts.
We say,
اهدنا الصراط المستقيم
Guide us to the straight path.
Because guidance is in the hands of Allah.
Subhanahu wa ta'ala,
if Allah seals the hearts,
who is going to guide those hearts thereafter?
So may Allah open our doors.
Some people see the light.
They see it bright shining,
but they don't want to take heed
and they don't want to learn lesson.
So this was revelation from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
and these boys, subhanallah,
these youngsters of Quraysh,
they had succeeded.
And the boycott was over.
And now the people of Quraysh
began to persecute the Muslims once again.
A very, very great degree.
And what had happened at that particular point,
Allah blessed Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
with a blessing.
The people of Najran,
Najran was a distance from Makkah al-Mukarramah.
They were predominantly Christian people.
They had heard about this messenger
and they decided to send a group of people,
mashallah,
to go and see this man
and to get news
and to see whether he is right or wrong.
So the Christians of Najran
sent 20 men to Muhammad salallahu alaihi wasallam
when they had come out of the boycott.
And they came and asked him questions.
And they asked him,
they heard some of the Qur'an
asking him questions.
All 20 accepted Islam one go.
Allahu akbar.
They all accepted.
Look, the people of Quraysh did not accept,
but people from far away came and accepted.
This is what happens
to the Anbiya of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
Their own people,
boot them out.
This is what Waraka bin Naufal said.
When you come with this message to your people,
they're not going to listen to you.
But the others further away
will benefit from it much, much more
than your own people.
May Allah grant us really a lesson.
I always like to make mention
of the ulama of your area.
Every time there are ulama in your midst,
make use of them.
If you don't make use of them,
there will be others further away
who will be making use of them
and you will go without any form of goodness,
without having benefited.
When you meet Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
He will ask you,
I kept so and so and so and so
right near you as your neighbors.
How did you not benefit from them?
They had the message.
You didn't even get the message.
So ensure that you make use
of the ulama in your midst.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us.
May Allah open our doors.
The lesson we have just learned is from
what happened?
The people of Najran came.
What about the people of Makkah?
His own family rejected.
Allahu Akbar.
His own uncle and the others.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not prohibit us.
So Abu Jahl looks at these people of Najran
and he says, you people are mad.
How can you have come here,
ask one, two questions and you accept
when we live here and we know this man
and we will never accept.
So immediately Allahu Akbar,
they responded.
They said, look, we have our choice.
We have chosen.
You have your choice.
You've chosen.
And you know what?
You don't want to debate with someone who's a fool.
And Allah revealed verses to Muhammad
salallahu alayhi wa sallam.
وَإِذَا سَمِعٌ لَغْوَ أَعْرَضُوا عَنُّ وَقَالُوا لَنَا أَعْمَالُنَا وَلَكُمْ أَعْمَالُكُمْ سَلَامٌ عَلَيْكُمْ
لَا نَبْتَغِ الْجَاهِلِينَ
When they hear the foolish person,
when they hear that which is vain,
what Abu Jahl was saying.
When they hear that which is vain,
they turned away from it.
They turned away from it.
And they said, we have our deeds, our choice.
You have your deeds, your choice.
And peace be upon you.
We are not going to waste our time
debating and arguing with you.
So this verse was revealed in connection
with the group that had come from Najran
and what debate or what little discussion
they had had with Abu Jahl.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us lesson.
Then Allahu Akbar,
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala makes mention
of something very, very powerful,
connected to something that had happened
that was very sad on one hand
and the other hand a lesson for all.
The uncle of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasalam
fell ill, he fell sick.
And Quraysh, they were happy and they were sad.
They were happy and they were sad.
They were sad thinking this man
is going to accept Islam last minute.
And they were happy because they thought to themselves,
once he's gone, we can nail this man as we like.
Allahu Akbar, may Allah protect us.
This nephew, he was being protected by the uncle.
The uncle dies, we can do whatever we want
with this nephew.
So they made sure they were around Abu Talib
on his death bed.
He was now very old and sickly.
And the Prophet peace be upon him
who loved his uncle a lot,
meaning he had great care for his uncle.
His uncle cared for him.
But when Islam came, he continued trying
to convey the message of Islam to his uncle.
His uncle knew what was right and wrong,
but he had not uttered the Shahadah.
He didn't declare it.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us
not only the utterance of Shahadah,
but the belief and the ability to convey to others.
Ameen.
So his uncle, the Prophet salallahu alayhi wasalam
looks at him and says,
Ya am, qul kalimatan uhajulaka biha yawmal qiyama
I want you to utter one statement
so that I can fight your case on the day of qiyama.
Allahu Akbar.
You utter one statement and the rest is mine,
so to speak.
Say one word, I will bear witness
on the day of qiyama that you have uttered it.
Just say that there is none worthy of worship
besides the maker and the one
you are going to return to.
Just say that.
Once you utter that, I will do the rest for you.
Allahu Akbar.
Because you need to turn away from the idols
and all what Quraish was worshiping
and you need to come to the worship
of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala.
But the uncle, he actually tells his nephew,
oh, my nephew, had it not been
for these big boys around me,
meaning the big people of Quraish around me,
I would have made you so happy by that statement.
But if I now say it on my deathbed,
it's going to be a great embarrassment.
I will go down as a traitor in history.
Look at this.
This is what the man says.
If it wasn't for Quraish around here,
I would be uttering.
And Quraish was waiting,
meaning the head, they were waiting there
because they knew, we don't want tomorrow
to hear that on his deathbed he became a Muslim
and we didn't know.
So we want to bear witness,
we are going to be here right here.
So the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
was very sad because he kept repeating this,
that oh, my uncle, utter one statement.
Just say la ilaha illallah
and I will bear witness for you.
Muhammadur Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
But the uncle passed away.
When the uncle passed away
without having uttered these words,
the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
was very, very sad.
Very, very sad.
And this is when verses were revealed
by Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
Innaka la tahdi man ahbabta
wa lakinna allaha yahdi main yashaa
You do not guide whomever you wish.
Oh, Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we guide, Allah guides whomever he wishes.
Subhanallah.
So guidance is not in your hands.
Guidance is in the hands of Allah.
In your hands is to show the path.
Whether they walk on it or not
is up to Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
You see, Hidayah is divided into two categories.
Like Allah says,
wa innaka la tahdi ila siratil mustaqeem
Oh, Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
you guide them to the straight path,
which means you show them where the path is.
But the guidance as in the ability
to walk on that path,
that's only in the hands of Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
So let's not confuse the two types of guidance.
One is ad-dalala wal irshad.
The other one is tawfiq,
where Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala gives acceptance
to a person to walk on the path.
A lot of us know what is right and wrong,
but a lot of us are guilty of slipping here and there
and doing that which is wrong
and not doing that which we are supposed to.
So this happens.
May Allah forgive us and make us strong.
So to know what's right and wrong is one thing,
but to walk on that path is another thing.
So this was also a verse that was revealed
to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
Now there was a very, very difficult time
that Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
had gone through, very difficult,
because his uncle passed away.
The people of Quraysh began,
they already threatened,
now we're going to kill this man.
And do you know Abu Talib was the external support,
which means he protected Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
from any external harm by the will of Allah.
But something else happened.
Khadija binti Khuwailid radiallahu anha,
who was the closest to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
his own wife,
who was the biggest pillar of support and comfort.
She also fell ill and passed away.
Khadija radiallahu anha,
this was in the tenth year of Hijra.
It became known as the year of sadness,
because one after the other,
negativities came into place,
what we would term negativities.
But Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
although he was sad,
he knew Allah's plan.
He was a Nabi,
and he knew there is a plan.
He knew that these words and this message
have to go across wherever there are human beings,
wherever there are mankind or jinn kind,
the message is definitely going to reach.
He lost his uncle,
he lost his wife.
The uncle, as I said,
protected him from external harm.
The wife protected him internally,
comforted him.
So he lost that inner comfort
and the outer comfort zone that he had had all along.
This was a test.
Now he thought to himself,
Subhanallah,
the people of Quraysh are planning to kill me.
They want to kick me out.
They want to boycott.
They want to surround.
They want to persecute.
They want to do so many things.
Allah makes mention in the Quran.
وَإِذْ يَمْكُرُ بِكَ الَّذِينَ كَفَرُوا
لِيُثْبِتُكَ أَوْ يَقُتُلُكَ أَوْ يُخْرِجُكَ
وَيَمْكُرُونَ وَيَمْكُرُوا اللَّهِ
These kuffar,
they were planning to keep you on one spot,
which means to ground you,
number one,
or to kill you,
or to expel you.
They were planning,
Allah plans,
and Allah is the best of planners.
So Rasulullah ﷺ thought to himself,
you see the people of Ta'if,
they are the closest people.
It's the next city,
the next city,
closest to Makkah al-Mukarramah,
not too far.
Let me go there,
and perhaps I will try with them.
If I win their support,
perhaps we could come into Quraysh
and explain to them,
and perhaps they would then seeing
how many people of Ta'if have accepted Islam,
they would embrace Islam.
So the Prophet ﷺ on one hand,
some of his people are gone to Abyssinia.
The other hand,
people in Makkah al-Mukarramah are being persecuted.
And now what is happening?
He takes Zayd ibn Haritha,
who was the closest person to him as well now,
and he walks to Al-Ta'if.
They went on foot.
Why did they go on foot?
Because had they gone on horseback, camelback,
people would know these people are now leaving Makkah.
They would get excited.
They wouldn't allow them to go
because they would want him back.
They did not want Muhammad ﷺ to go elsewhere
because as much as they didn't like him,
they knew that people from outside
were coming and accepting the message.
They knew it.
So they were confused, these people of Quraysh.
One hand they're saying, we're gonna expel him.
On another hand they say,
no, we're gonna keep him here and ground him.
We don't want anyone to talk to him.
So Rasulullah ﷺ went to Ta'if.
When he went to Ta'if,
he immediately headed for the leaders of Ta'if.
Who were they?
Abdi Alil, that was one, ibn Amr
and his two brothers,
Masood ibn Amr and Habib ibn Amr.
These were the three people.
He went to them.
He spoke to them.
He presented Islam to them.
It is reported that in total he was 10 days in Ta'if
and he presented Islam to them in a beautiful way.
And he told them about Allah and about the idols
and about good character and conduct
and not burying the girls alive
and not engaging in misbehavior and misconduct
and cheating and deceiving and waylaying
and being, robbing the traveler and so on.
And he told them also of Quraysh and their persecution.
Now these people,
they did not accept the message, number one.
Number two is,
Muhammad ﷺ told them,
okay, if you don't want to accept the message,
no problem, but please do me one favor.
Don't tell Quraysh that I was here
because if they know that I am seeking protection
and I'm seeking your assistance to go and fight them,
then there is going to be a lot of trouble.
What did they do?
They sent a messenger straight to Quraysh.
This man, he came to us
and he is trying to win our support against you.
The reason is the two of them had their squabbles.
Now in order to settle it a little bit,
they quickly went to tell, to say,
you know what, this man here is a middle man here
and we are going to deal with him.
And in the meantime, these three,
instead of sending him away respectfully to say,
look, we don't accept your message,
they sent the children and the slaves,
boys and girls out on the streets
and told them stone this man and mock at him
and do whatever you want to him
and nothing will happen to you.
We are the leaders.
We're going to sit here and watch.
A'udhu Billah.
So as Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
had taken a message of peace and goodness
to the people of Ta'if,
they retaliated with stones and sticks.
They threw stones, they hurled abuse.
They made him bleed.
He was harmed and he was hurt on his body
and the blood was now trickling in his shoes.
His shoes were filled and he is going out of Ta'if
and they are running behind him
and they are pelting him
and they are laughing at him
as though they were pelting a dog.
A'udhu Billah.
May Allah save us.
And this is the best of creation
who came to them with a message of goodness.
These were the people of Ta'if.
And what had happened?
Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala sent Jibreel Alaihi Salatu Wa Salam
to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam.
A few pointers of mercy.
One is he says,
O Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we have watched what they have done to you.
We know what they have done to you.
You instruct us.
We will do to them what you wish.
Then it is reported according to one narration
although some of the scholars of Hadith
say that this narration is mursal.
Mursal meaning the chain is not complete near the end.
So there was a man known as Addas.
He was a slave of Utbah and Shaybah Ibn Rabi'ah
and they had had a little garden in Ta'if,
on the outskirts of Ta'if.
So as Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
was running out,
he found a little shrubbery
where the grapes were growing.
So he ducked underneath it.
Him and Zaid Ibn Haritha.
And he noticed when he looked up
that it was a very hot day
but the cloud was covering him.
Subhanallah.
Imagine a hot day,
enemies from all over,
but the clouds are not your enemies.
The creatures of Allah besides man,
not your enemies.
And this particular group of people,
they were cursed.
Imagine those hands
that were pelting Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
personally far worse than those hands
that draw cartoons today
although both of them are equal in blasphemy.
May Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala safeguard us.
So Utbah and Shaybah Ibn Rabi'ah,
the two sons of Rabi'ah,
they saw Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
and these people are from Quraysh.
They had their garden in Ta'if
and they looked
and they saw this man in blood, bleeding
and they saw that he is helpless.
No water, no drink, no food.
So it is reported according to this narration
that I have just made mention of,
which is Mursal,
it is reported that they sent Addas,
the slave of theirs,
they sent him with some grapes.
Go and give that man.
Just give it to him and come back.
So when Addas went there,
he gave the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
the grapes and Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
said Bismillah.
As he said Bismillah,
Addas looks at him and says,
what did you say?
Whatever you've said now,
the people here don't even say that.
So Rasulullah Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam said,
obviously I said in the name of Allah
and I'm eating in the name of Allah.
Where are you from and who are you?
He says, I am Addas
and I come from Nineveh,
which is in Iraq.
And there, so before he could utter more,
the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
that is the place where Yunus Ibn Mattah,
Yunus, the son of Matthew is from,
Yunus Alaihi Wasallam.
So Addas was shocked.
How do you know?
So the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
read some verses of the Quran
where the story of Yunus is made mentioned.
This Addas, it is reported,
started kissing the forehead of Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
and he declared, you're a messenger,
you're a messenger.
This is the one person who accepted Islam
as he was leaving Ta'if.
And now Utba and Shaiba,
the sons of Rabi'ah are watching this Addas.
And when he came back,
what's your problem?
How can you kiss that man?
And he is a man whom you don't even know.
What did he tell you?
So he said, look,
he told me something that only a prophet can know.
That's it.
They said, be careful of this man.
And the narration ends there.
May Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala save Goddess.
It is a manna that I narrate to you or relate to you
that that narration is mursal,
which means the chain of narrators
is not exactly complete,
but most of the books of history
have made mention of the story of Addas.
So it's important for us to make mention of it.
May Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala make us
from amongst those who realize
the true value of being Muslim.
Wallahi, a great sacrifice has gone
in getting this message across to us and to the globe.
But this was all by the will of Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
So the Prophet Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
then left Ta'if.
And as he came back on his feet,
he was walking,
he stopped at a place called Wadi Nakhla
for a few days.
And he used to read Quran in the night in Salah.
And Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala told him later on
that when you were in that valley of Nakhla,
a group of jinn,
approximately seven of the jinn had come
and they heard you recite the Quran.
And Allah sent revelation to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
telling him the following.
And when We sent forth to you a group of jinn
who were listening to the Quran,
when they came to it,
they said,
I will give you advice.
And when it was finished,
they turned to their people,
warning them.
They said,
O our people!
We have heard a Book
which was sent down after Moses.
It confirms what is in front of it.
It guides to the truth
and to a straight path.
O our people!
Answer Allah's call and believe in it.
Allahu Akbar!
I will stop there.
Powerful verses.
Allah says,
We had made the jinn come to you
and listen to the Quran.
When they heard it,
they attended and they said to each other,
stop in silence and listen to what is being recited.
When they heard it,
they immediately felt and they knew that this is the guidance.
They believed in it,
rushed back to their people,
meaning to jinn kind and told them,
O our jinn kind!
We have just heard revelation after Moses,
which is similar to that which he has brought
and it is true
and there is a messenger reciting it,
believe in what he has brought
and indeed you will be forgiven.
The jinn kind are saying this.
So Allah says,
hang on, the jinn have believed.
If the people of Ta'if
told Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam to leave
and they harmed him,
these were jinn
and they had accepted the message.
But there is one thing that we need to know
before this incident of the jinn.
And that is as Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
is leaving Ta'if,
I made mention of Jibreel coming to him
and telling him,
you tell us what do you want?
The angels of the mountains,
they came to him and told him,
O Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
these people between these two mountains,
you tell us we will crush them now.
You just tell us,
give us the instruction
and we will deal with them.
So Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
he raises his hands,
he says,
اللهم إني أشكوا إليك ضعف قوتي
وقلة حيلتي
وهواني على الناس
O Allah,
I am complaining to you
about what?
About people?
About these people of Ta'if?
We can destroy them.
No,
I am complaining to you about my weakness.
Ya Allah, I am weak.
You sent me to Ta'if.
I went to Ta'if,
they didn't even listen.
In Quraysh, they're not even listening.
A handful of people,
Ya Allah, this is happening.
Ya Allah, I am complaining to you about my weakness
and how weak I am.
Subhanallah.
And when this powerful messenger
makes such a merciful remark
looking at his weakness
rather than the weakness of the others,
not even weakness,
the sin of the others,
war crimes literally of the others.
But Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam says,
no, it's me who's weak.
No, no, no.
Then he says,
اللهم مهدي قومي
فإنهم لا يعلمون
What I want from you now,
Ya Allah, guide these people,
guide my people
because they don't know what they're doing.
So the angel says to Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
we can destroy them at that juncture.
Do you know what he says?
He says, leave them.
Perhaps Allah will take out from their progeny
people who will accept my message.
Imagine, look at how he is thinking of the future,
praying for the future,
having hope for the future.
And he is saying,
perhaps from their progeny,
there will be people who will accept my message.
Later on, you see how Saqeef accepted Islam.
Subhanallah.
Today you go to Ta'if.
Who is there?
Not a single non-Muslim.
All the people of Ta'if are Muslim.
Imagine, if Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam,
Muhammad Ibn Abdullah had to say,
destroy them,
today there would be ruins in Ta'if.
We would see the ruins.
People will probably go there
and make a tourist site out of it.
And this is the weakness with us.
We see the ruins of the previous nations.
We convert them into a tourist resort,
not thinking that we are actually supposed
to be learning a lesson
from whatever has happened.
You can go, but on condition
that you're learning a lesson
and it's drawing you closer to Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala.
May Allah Subhanahu Wa Ta'ala safe guard us.
So when Muhammad Sallallahu Alaihi Wasallam
now returned,
we made mention of what happened with the jinn.
And as he's going into Makkah,
they didn't want him in Makkah.
He couldn't enter.
Because now he was out.
They didn't want him back in.
They wanted to fight him and kill him
because he went to seek assistance
from others against Quraysh.
So at that juncture,
he goes to Al-Mutrim Ibn Adi.
And he says,
look, I need you to guarantee for me
or I need you to stand as guarantee for me
so that I can enter into Quraysh.
And as we said yesterday,
this was the norm at the time.
They used to give guarantees for one another
on certain grounds.
This man, I guarantee and so on.
And please let him in.
So Al-Mutrim Ibn Adi,
his children got up with him.
And it's reported some of his family members
got up with him.
They took their swords
and they took Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
right to the Ka'bah
and allowed them to make tawaf around it.
And the people of Quraysh are looking and saying,
are you just following
or is he under your guarantee?
He says, he's under my guarantee.
Subhanallah.
Then they were quiet.
They said, if that's the case,
we leave him alone.
And Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
really had suffered at the hands of Quraysh
directly and indirectly.
There was another incident that occurred also,
which was of great blessing.
One man, one man from Dawos.
Dawos was a tribe that was not so far.
The people of Dawos,
just one man had come,
At-Tufail Ibn Amr,
At-Tufail Ibn Amr al-Dawsi had come
to see Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam in Makkah.
And he saw him
and immediately he accepted.
He said, yes, this is the messenger.
I believe and I bear witness.
Nabi sallallahu alaihi wasallam
gave him some good news,
read some Qur'an for him
and told him, go back to your people,
invite them to Islam.
I'm making a dua,
Allahumma hdi Dawsa,
O Allah, guide the people of Dawos.
When this At-Tufail Ibn Amr
went back to Dawos,
he conveyed the message
and the majority of them turned to Islam.
The majority of them turned to Islam.
Do you know who is from Dawos
for your information?
A man who has narrated the most hadith
of Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
His name is Abdulrahman ibn Sakhr,
more commonly known as Abu Hurairah.
Today we quoted him also in our talk,
Abu Hurairah.
His proper name is Abdulrahman ibn Sakhr.
As we mentioned Abu Bakr,
his proper name is Abdullah ibn Uthman.
So here you have Abdulrahman ibn Sakhr.
Abu Hurairah, he was a Dawsi
and he had also accepted Islam
and later on he met with Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam.
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to open our doors and to grant us goodness.
Now we have a very, very important incident
that occurred at the time
for Rasulullah sallallahu alaihi wasallam
and for the Muslims.
Remember this 10th year of Hijrah
was known as Amul Huzn.
It was known, sorry,
the 10th year of prophethood, not Hijrah.
I think if I've said Hijrah,
what I mean here is prophethood.
Because as you know,
there at that time they used to use
some big incident that occurred
and they used to count a year before it,
a year after it, like we said,
the year of the elephants.
The next most important thing that happened
was the year of prophethood
and the next most important thing
was the year of Hijrah
and up to today,
that was one of the most important things
that occurred.
So we say Hijri calendar,
the calendar of Hijrah
and we are sitting today at 1,433 years
from that Hijrah.
So what had happened is
it was a year of sadness,
the 10th year of prophethood.
He lost his uncle,
he lost his wife.
He went to Taif and he was beaten
and he was literally booted out
and he came back from Taif
and now he was in Mecca.
And as a gift, Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala,
in the 11th year of prophethood,
granted him what is known as Al-Isra wal-Mi'raj,
the journey by night and the ascension.
And this, when did it happen?
What was the date?
The truth is there is no authentic narration
giving us the precise date.
So if someone says,
oh, it is this date or that date,
the reality is there is not an authentic narration.
The bulk of the Muhaddithin say
it happened in the month of Ramadan.
Some of them say it happened
towards the end of Rajab.
Whatever be the case,
we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
to grant us a lesson from that Mi'raj.
There's no point in debating this and that.
We need to look at what is not debated.
The issue of Isra and Mi'raj is not debated.
So why debate about a little issue of the date?
Let the date be something which is irrelevant for now.
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the lesson.
So one day, the Prophet salallahu alayhi wa sallam,
he used to sleep at the house of his cousin Ummuhani
and as he was sleeping there,
Jibreel alayhi salatu wa salam
comes to him with a buraq.
And one narration says he was in the Hijr.
The Hijr meaning the Hatim.
You know the Hatim area in the vicinity of the Kaaba.
In fact, it is part of the Kaaba.
We made mention of it, the semi-circular.
Now, both narrations are correct
because he was there and then he was brought here.
So this is what happened.
So he was at the house of Ummuhani
and he was brought to where the well of Zamzam was.
And when he was brought there, subhanallah,
something massive happened, something huge happened.
The occasion of the journey by night
from Mecca all the way to Jerusalem
and from Jerusalem, he was taken in Mi'raj.
The meaning of Mi'raj, Mi'raj means an elevator.
An elevator, that's the meaning of Mi'raj.
So the buraq's job was to take him
from Mecca to Jerusalem.
And from Jerusalem, Mi'raj,
the elevator took him all the way up
with Jibreel alayhi salatu wa salam.
And how did he go up?
He went up physically in body and soul
according to Ahlul Sunnah wal Jama'ah, subhanallah.
You know, people, inshallah,
we will talk in detail about this tomorrow.
But sometimes people say,
how could he have gone up in such a short while?
And how could he have gone up?
Believe me, today, we have rockets
that take you into orbit within one and a half minutes.
One and a half minutes, you are in orbit.
They tell you that.
What is impossible for Allah, subhanahu wa ta'ala.
They say, how could he have gone all the way
to Jerusalem from Mecca in such a short space of time?
Well, you have the Concorde
that goes faster than 330 meters per second.
That's the speed of sound.
It breaks the sound barrier and it takes you.
In fact, there is a bullet
that travels even faster than that.
May Allah, subhanahu wa ta'ala, grant us lesson.
Tomorrow, inshallah,
we'll commence with this story of Isra' and Mi'raj
until we meet again.
Wa salallahu wa sallam wa baraka ala Nabina Muhammad.
Subhanallah bi hamdi.
Subhanaka allahum wa bi hamdika.
Nashahdu alla ilaha illa anta.
Nastaghfiruka wa natubu ilayk.
Alif Laam Meem.
Allah, la ilaha illa huwa l-Hijj al-Tayyum.